From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
86. Recorded live Tuesday, October
16, 2007. Support for Hanselman
it's as provided by Telerik
rad controls. The most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web application.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by dotnet developers journal, the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
and Carl talk open source
licensing with act online president
Jonathan Zuck. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin and you're listening to
Hansel minutes from Hanselman it's
dot com. I'm here with
Scott Hanselman and his guest
Jonathan Zuck. Our good buddy.
Hey Jonathan, how are you?
Hey man. It's great to
be here. Hi Scott. How's
it gone? Well, I, what
are we talking about? Patent
technology patent law? Well, a
lot of people have been
asking that we do a
show on open source licensing
and a lot of people
have been emailing me with
questions. Like I've got some
software and I want to
put it out there in
the world. So then I
started to do a little
research and realized that this
was a way bigger topic
than I could handle myself.
And then I realized that
that our buddy Jonathan here
would be the best guy
to talk to us about
this. So Jonathan, tell, tell
us about the organization that
you work for and you
know, what you did before
and what you do now.
Sure. Well, most of my
professional history is as a
software developer, some commercial software,
but a lot of custom
software built for large government
agencies and big companies like
American express and Freddie Mac.
But the last few years
I've been involved in an
organization called the association for
competitive technology, which is an
it industry trade association based
in Washington. And now also
in Brussels, they kind of
fights for the rights of
small businesses in the public
policy arena. So I've, I've
gone from programming to being
a defender of programmers. Okay.
So gosh, why, what, what,
what caused you to like
get into the whole DC
thing? I assume you have
to put on a suit
and go to Capitol Hill.
I know it's kind of
funny. I've been in Washington
since graduate school in 1987
and, and regarded for many
years, the, the white house
and the Capitol building is
just part of the Smithsonian,
right? You know, the Capitol
building was this place with
a dome that if you
stood on opposite ends of
it, you could hear each
other whisper. And, and if
you got a special pass,
you could go see, you
know, statesman debating about stuff.
And none of it had
any relevance to our day
to day lives, especially, you
know, entrepreneurs in the tech
field, but increasingly the decisions
that are being made in
Washington and Brussels and around
the world are starting to
have a real impact on
businesses, large and small in
the technology sector. And so
I thought it was time
to be a part of
having an impact beyond just
my own business. You started
teaching the lawmakers about things
that they clearly knew, nothing
about when they, when they
were it, especially when Microsoft
was in hot water the
first time. And they would
get up in front of
juries and try to be
technical. And they really had
no idea what they were
saying. So you, And so
if you think about it,
laws are mostly made by
people that are having to
deal with all kinds of
different issues. So, you know,
they've, they've just had a
meeting about labor statistics and
then suddenly you come in
to talk to them about
some sort of technology policy
and it's enough to make
your head explode. I'm sure.
But for the most part,
we're talking about people that
have just about managed agricultural
policy. So the talk about,
you know, web browsers and
service-based architectures and the implications
for cross border commerce, for
example, it's a tall order
to get them to understand
it. So my, my gift
of precipitous and persistence and
metaphor I suppose, has served
me well in communicating with
people whose day to day
jobs don't involve technology, Just
out of curiosity, are there
any Congressman or us Congressman
and your senators that, that
are technical, or like maybe,
you know, closet geeks that
we don't know about? Have
you met any that are
like that you surprised you
and immediately start talking tech
and you realize that this
guy is running his own
home server and he's got
his whole house wired. Isn't
David Rockefeller kind of A
geek. Yeah. There's certainly a
number of hidden geeks on
Capitol Hill. There's no question.
I mean, there are entrepreneurs
who like me have built
businesses and then have decided
to go on to try
and impact something beyond their
own customer base. I mean,
Daryl Eissa, for example, is
the inventor of the Viper
car alarm system, right? And,
and so he comes to
the Congress with a real
technology and engineering background and
gets these issues very quickly.
And then there's other people
that just sort of naturally
think along those lines and,
and are just early adopters
of technology and are excited
by the benefits it can
bring to, you know, their
websites and their campaigns, et
cetera. And that early involvement
mainly by younger members of
Congress makes them a little
bit more technology savvy up
front. How much are you
involved in an open source
licensing? And as it relates
to companies deciding to open
source something or possibly defending
themselves against an open source
thing, I mean, it's kind
of a broad question, but
a lot of people want
to get software out there,
but at the same time
they want To kind of
put their thumb on it,
like a chess piece, just
in case they want to
do something with it in
the future. I mean, I
think that's, I think that's
probably a good categorization of
the place that a lot
of entrepreneurs find themselves. You
know, a lot of the
work of act has to
do with public policy and
the laws surrounding the technology
industry, but the whole, there's
a whole different side, if
you will, to the industry,
which is sort of how
it exists with itself and
the kinds of agreements and
contracts that exist between industry
partners and with between innovators
and their customers. And it's
certainly nothing new. I mean,
all three of us are
old enough to have created
shareware, for example, which was
another type of license for
your, your software. I mean,
I remember getting a game
once and he created a
license. He called smile aware
where all he asked in
return for his software was
that you send them a
postcard saying how much you
enjoyed it. So, I mean,
a lot of creative licensing
is certainly not a new
concept. I got a postcard
from my share where I
share where I think different
people had mixed success with
that in some ways I
think share where the degree
which share were enjoyed some
success back in the late
eighties and early nineties was
actually a function of the
work done by organizations like
the business software Alliance and
the software publishers association to,
to do sort of like
a software audits inside of
large organizations. I remember I
created a, a little utility
for printing your screen to
laser jet and an Epson
printers. It was sort of
like graphics.com, but with better
printer support. And I put
it up there and I
said, well, if you like,
it send $5, right. And
10,000 people downloaded it. And
I would say that maybe
15 people said $5, right.
And it made me wonder
that maybe I should've put
this software out under a
different license, but what saved
the day was that Merrill
Lynch called and Merrill Lynch
had probably just been through
or had a colleague just
be through a, you know,
a big time software audit.
And so their question was,
we want to pay for
this and we want to
know what it costs for
an organization wide license. So
I would just throw out
a number like, well, $5,000
and they'd be like, okay.
And I'm like per department.
I meant, you know, and
so you end up with
those kinds of negotiations that
are a function of working
in a world in which
large businesses are creating legal
precedents that we all benefit
from because otherwise the shareware
model had some, some critical
flaws. I think today with
the, this sort of resurgence
and formalization of you will
of, of, of a concept
of free and open source
software and how this religion
has sort of commingled with
some industry players that have
benefits to investing has created
a lot more visibility for
alternatives to commercial licensing, right?
So those alternatives have always
existed, but I think now
they're getting a lot more
attention. And so people are
looking at trying to figure
out how they can ride
this wave, how they can
gain the benefits of a
lot of people looking at
their source code, for example,
or the wide distribution associated
with making their software free
and maybe gaining their benefits
elsewhere. And so I think
that's why Scott's getting more
and more of these questions
about, well, if I want
to put out a piece
of software, what sort of
license should I use? It
seems like there's a couple
of different categories of this
kind of thing. I mean,
there's the, I want credit
for having done it, but
as far as, other than
that, you know, just keep
my name in the source
somewhere so that people know
I did it. And then
there's the, this is for
reference, right? Like the new
reference license and Microsoft Scott,
where you can look at
the code, but you really
can't do anything with it
other than use it as
a learning tool. What are
some of the major categories
of open source licensing software
cause opensource licenses rather cause
there's hundreds of different licenses,
right? Yeah, sure. There's an
organization in fact called the
open source initiative or OSI
that has attempt to compile
all of these different open
source licenses. And they've attempted
to bless licenses that can
call themselves open source. And
in some respects, I think
that's far less important to
the typical entrepreneur or innovator
that it, that they're licensed
be blessed by some organization
then that it meet their
needs. Right. And everybody has
sort of individual needs for
a particular software license that
they might offer their product
under. If you think about
software licensing, it's, it's kind
of a continuum, you know,
on, on the one side
is the public domain license
that basically says that I
want to make this software
available to the world, to
the community. And I don't
want anything in return and
I don't want any responsibility
for it either, but it's
just free to use any
way that you want to
use it. And on the
other side of the continuum
is a typical commercial software
license that can be very
specific about how the software
can be used. And then
the under the conditions at
which they have to give
the software back, et cetera,
there's even been provisions in
end user license agreements that
specify that the software can't
be used for illegal activity,
for example. So there's a,
you know, on a commercial
license and a full blown
commercial license, there can be
an awful lot of requirements
and specifications as to how
that software can be used.
And then along that continuum,
there's a lot of different
choices and categories of licenses
that have to do with
what kind of limits you
want to place on the
use of the software or
what kind of rights you
want to retain for the
software that you created. So
if you think starting again
from the left to the
next soft, you know, a
little bit more restrictive licenses,
the Berkeley software license that
you hear from a lot
of people, the so called
BSD license, and that license
has mostly to do with
releasing your software out for
any purpose, but you really
want limited liability associated with
the use of that software.
So what you're saying to
people is, Hey, you can
use this software any way
you like, but I take
no responsibility for the software
or how you use it.
Don't call me, right? So
if you build this software,
that's for a cruise missile
guidance systems and it knocks
off somebody's grandma's house, it's
not your responsibility, right? It's
gotta be the responsibility of
the person who made use
of the software. And just
by virtue of the fact
that you put that license
in the, in the, in
a licensed dot text file,
but by them using it,
they have a kind of
implicitly accepted that license. That's
exactly right by them using
that source code. You're saying,
if you don't agree to
assume full liability for the
use of this source code,
then you're not allowed to
use it. So in other
words, if they don't agree
to that level of viability,
then they are not allowed
to use that source code
from you. And so the,
the next license over and
the one that's gotten a
lot of publicity in recent
years is something called the
general public license and or
GPL. And that came out
of the free software foundation.
And that license has a
particular purpose, which is to,
in a somewhat viral fashion,
expand the base of freely
available software. So while that
software is freely available for
use, there's some restrictions that
have to do with, once
you use this software, what
you have to do with
your modifications, to the software
that you have to give
back your modifications back into
this sort of communal system
of software that's built up
around this license. So that
particular license is one that
very heavily makes use of
your copyright that says that
this is still my software.
I still own the rights
to it. And that I'm
giving you the ability to
use the source code in
your own products, but with
the provisional that you will
give back any modifications you
make to the software so
that I can improve my
software, the community can make
use of those modifications. So
it's a license that is
designed by a community as
opposed to an individual vendor.
And I think that's one
of the things that distinguishes
it is it's a license
that's designed to build up
the resources of a community
rather than specifically address the
interest of a software builder.
You know, initially that sounds
like such a great idea,
but one of the things
that we got in trouble
with, because our Lord, I
guess our lawyers didn't understand
it. Maybe you can answer
this is that let's say
that I'm using a testing
framework, that's GPL and I'm
testing software that I don't
want GPL, but they've, they've
become linked. Right? And this
is where we get into
that technical versus legal I've
gone and said using the.net.net
ism add reference. And now,
you know, in memory, these
things are linked, but on
disc, they're not, you know,
it has that virus quote,
unquote, spread into my software.
Do I have to now
give away the thing that
I'm testing? Right. And I,
and I think that that's
the, I think that's one
of the issues. And in
fact, that is the reason
that they developed something called
the lightweight GPR LGPL was
to facilitate the coexistence of
GPL and non GPL software.
If that software wasn't specifically
integrated. In other words, if
you redistribute a piece of
software in which you have
incorporated actual source code from
a GPL, you know, code
base, then your code essentially
becomes GPL source code, but
you do have the ability
to kind of mix things
at a DLL level and
allow to create software that
interacts with GPL software without
taking on the viral nature
of that license. So that
limp, that L that limited
could also mean library that's
right. Okay. The library, the
library GPL. Exactly. And then
the, and then the other
license that's becoming popular in
the commercial space is so-called
reference or shared source license,
which is designed by commercial
software vendors to get it,
some of the advantages that
are enjoyed by the availability
of source code without really
releasing any of their rights.
In other words, in unreal,
licensed like that, you have
the ability to look at
source code. You have the
ability to incorporate the source
code into your debugging process.
For example, you're allowed to
use the source code to
create software that better inter-operates
with this existing software, but
you haven't been granted any
rights to modify the source
code or to redistribute it
under your own name, for
example, the way that you
can under a GPL license.
So that's still really largely
a commercial software license, but
the source has been opened
up in such a way
that it's made available for
your viewing and to be
helpful to you, but it's
not designed to allow you
to create a competitive product
and, and redistribute that under
your own name. And so,
as you start further down
that continuum, it becomes more
about your own intellectual property
and your ability to protect
how that software gets used
downstream. And that's what you're
getting into when you get
into a real commercial license.
And one of the licenses
that you haven't mentioned yet
that I see more and
more, and perhaps it's more
of a media license, but
I'm seeing it in source
as well. This is creative
commons. That's exactly right. Lawrence
Lessig saw a lot of
the same phenomenon. A lot
of the questions that you're
asking or that you're saying,
people are asking you about
how they should release their
software have been asked in
the creative community for a
long time. In other words,
if I'm an author or
musician, and I want to
make my music available for
nonprofits, for example, for free,
but I want for people
that are making money off
the music to have to
pay me, or I want
to make my music available
to anybody to listen to,
but I don't want them
to be able to modify
it and make it into
their own music, et cetera.
So there's all these different
sort of permutations of what
people would like to do
to more creatively get their
own content out, you know,
to the public. And, you
know, historically you've had to
go through publishers, either music,
publishers or book publishers. And
so Laurence Les had created
something called the creative commons,
which is really a set
of licenses designed for artists
to kind of specify in
some detail, well, this is
okay, but this isn't, and
this is okay, but this
isn't. So that rather than
having to just go with
one specific type of commercial
CD based license, you again,
have a continuum of artistic
licenses that are made available
to you in, in, in
relatively layman's terms. So that
as an artist, you can
put out content in a
number of different ways. No,
I actually licensed the content
of my blog under the,
I think it's the creative
commons, attribution license. And then
the, the, the sample code
kind of, I assume that
that's a good question. I
assume falls within that when
I paste code that I,
you know, samples and snippets
within that, the entire blog
and all of the things
found within or under that,
that attribution license, which says
use it, not for commercial
things, but a, you know,
link back to me and
make sure that people know
that it came from me.
I think that's exactly right.
I mean, those licenses allow
you to specify how you
want things that you've written
to be attributed to you
and allow you with some
fine detail basically to say
what's okay, and what isn't
okay. And it's meant to
be empowering for artists, as
opposed to them just selling
their rights over to a
publisher, and then having them
define how that content gets
out to the market. I
think creative comments has been
a really exciting project. Now,
how much are these just
things that people, you know,
kind of stamp on a
project and it makes them
feel good versus something that
they could really have backing
them up in court. I
mean, have these things been
challenged? Well, I mean, there
are challenges that take place
over licenses all the time.
I mean, for example, the
free software foundation has had
legal action against a TiVo,
for example, because what triggers
the viral nature of the
GPL is the notion of
re redistribution of source code.
In other words, if I
get a copy of open
office and I modify it
to create the world's best
word processing program that I'm
going to use inside of
a big bank that I
work for, for example, I
don't have to give anything
to anybody where that viral
license comes into play is
if I then turn around
and decide that I'm going
to ship the, you know,
I'm trying to come up
with a name that isn't
a real bank, you know,
the lampshade bank, you know,
office suite. Then at that
moment, that distribution triggers that
viral requirement that I then
give all those modifications back
into the public. And so,
you know, TiVo had a,
an interesting problem where they
weren't distributing a, a version
of Linux as a commercial
product, but they were distributing
a product that used a
modified version of Linux. And
there was certainly a legal
battle surrounding whether that represented
redistribution, et cetera. So there
are fights that take place
in the marketplace that helped
to define the legality and
enforceability of these agreements. But
for the most part, they're
quite enforceable. If you accept
content or software under a
particular license, then you're bound
by that license. How are
these things different than patent
disputes? I know Vontage is
in trouble right now. I
think with sprint or Verizon,
one of those guys may
be both. What is the
difference between a patent dispute
and a licensing dispute License
is actually a contract between
two parties. In other words,
you're, you're basically I'm putting
in software at under a
particular license. And as a
customer, you're saying that I'll
use, I'm gonna use the
software and, and in, so
doing I'm I'm in inferring
that you can, this license
will be enforceable, right? So
it represents a kind of
contract. A patent is something
a little bit more complex,
and that's basically a government
sanctioned or a government sanctioned
monopoly over a particular technology
that says that I've registered
this invention. I was the
first to invent this and
nobody else can do anything
exactly like this. And that's,
and that's a little more
complicated because then you sort
of have to go back
through the government to see
whether or not that gets
enforced. It's not something that
you sort of enforced directly
the way that you do
with a license or a,
you know, a contract. Then
if I license, if I
put a license on something,
if I come up with
a new algorithm, I license
it, creative commons, a bunch
of people use it. And
then a year later we
find out that it was
patented 10 years before, but
a bunch of people found
it for me and used
my license. Then what, well,
It's a, it's complicated because
you're actually licensing something different
than they were patenting. They
they're ultimately patenting the underlying
algorithm, the ultimate the idea
or invention behind the process
that you have in fact
implemented via source code, your
license was for your implementation.
In other words, if I
read in, you know, a
scientific journal, you know, about
a new, quick sort process
or something like that, we
can both implement it. You
know, in our own code
provided we're not violating a
patent and we could both
license our implementations of that
invention. So I would have
this licensing revenue associated with
my implementation and a patent
holder. If you really did
violate a patent, then come
to you and say, well,
you, you have your license
revenue, but you should have
been paying me royalties for
my invention as part of
the product that you were
licensing. And that's exactly what
happened to Microsoft in the
context of Viola's in their
browser and Alcatel with the
MP3 format. So there are
issues where by, it's not
a question of your license
superseded by a patent, but
that any revenues you generate
through that license could be
subject to some kind of
royalty payments to the inventor
of the underlying, you know,
invention that you implemented via
source code. Jonathan, I'm always
interested in people's thoughts on
pricing, because prices is sort
of the, the, how you,
how you can you say
it, the, the lifeblood of
any economy and sort of
everything, everything in money and
everything in the economy comes
down to pricing. And I
find it very difficult as
a developer of software. When
I've tried to do this
to, to figure out what
software is worth, how do
I price it? I mean,
it all comes down to
the L the, the, the
price in the license. We,
you know, within the confines
of the license, but, you
know, I I'll often find
that people will price software
according to how long it
took them to develop it,
or, you know, what they
think it's worth in terms
of the actual bits. But,
you know, it's very difficult
to get your mind around
the fact that what it's
worth is what people will
pay. Oh, that's exactly right.
I mean, often we ask
the question, is this a
prescription or a vitamin? In
other words, do I need
this to live? Or would
it just be nice if
I had one of these
every day? And, and those
kinds of answers are going
to dramatically affect your pricing
strategy for your product. And
very often there's no connection
between the level of effort
that you put into the
development of the product and
the value of that product
in the marketplace. And to
come up with that price,
you're going to have to
do market research. You're going
to have to do some
focus groups and get an
understanding from people what the
criticality of that software might
be to their business. And
the more critical it is,
the more you're going to
be able to charge. And
I think that's really going
to just be a function
of market research, and you
can't base that at all
on spitballing, based on your
level of it. Well, putting
that into the context of
open source licensing, it seems
like there's a lot of
software that people simply aren't
willing to pay for. And,
you know, to Carl's point
pricing is difficult. And oftentimes
if it's worth a dollar
or $2, or if it's
a couple of hundred lines
of something, or if it's,
you know, an MP3 encoder,
but it's not something that's
a 1995 build a company
around it, kind of a
thing. I'm just going to
throw it out there. And
I'm wondering kind of, if
I've just got a bunch
of software and I just
like to put it out
there for the people, but
if in the future, something
comes along where people start
making piles of money off
it, you know, I'd like
them to give me a
call, basically. It's like, I
don't want to build a
business around this, but if
you do call me, I
mean, what, what, what license
is appropriate for that seems
like one could throw as
much stuff out there as
possible and let someone else
take the risk. Well, you
know, That's a kind of
idyllic situation, but, you know,
you do in most instances
retain the rights to the
things that you, and so
there are a number of
software companies. If you remember
way back the company that
built the software pro com
with communications software was in
both the commercial business space
and the shareware business space.
And they just had a
previous version available as shareware
and the current version available
as commercial software, for example.
So they were able through
their shareware model to gain
an understanding of what was
needed in the marketplace, get
recommendations for new features, et
cetera, and build up a
customer base of people that
wanted to use that software.
But then if you wanted
the most recent version you
had to pay for it.
So that was one way
that you could, you know,
deal with that economy. You
know, the, in the, in
sort of modern day, there's
a company called the, my
SQL that, you know, have
a SQL database engine and
they do exactly the same
thing. They have both a
GPL based version of their
product and a commercial version
of their product. And because
they own the copyright, they're
able to distribute the same
software under two different licenses.
And so you can begin
to experiment with the licensing
in such a way that
you're doing the market research.
You're building a community of
people that are going to
support your software downstream, but,
but when it comes to
trying to sell this stuff
into American express, you know,
you can relieve them of
the burdens of a GPL
based license by selling simply
selling it to them. Commercial.
I never understood that. And
I think you were just
about to touch on that,
which is how can somebody
give away software on one
hand and then charge for
the same thing on the
other hand and how, I
mean, how does that possibly
work by what license where
I pick to have the
Scott program community edition that
people have sourced to in
these Scott commercial edition that
I can then sell that's
better. Right? I mean, we,
we, we, we know Rob
Howard does that with community
server, right? I mean, they
have two versions of that
product as well. If it
fundamentally has to do with
what kind of license your
customer wants to be under,
remember that the GPL has
a lot of restrictions and
a lot of signs of
dangers associated with it that
you might not want to
deal with. I might not,
I might want to make,
to, to use the software
commercially, for example, I might
want to distribute a product
that makes use of this
software. And I don't want
to have to worry about
whether or not I'm giving
back the right thing, et
cetera. So just charge me
a license fee and give
me a commercial software license.
And in that context, a
company that my SQL can
go to a SAP for
example, and say, okay, well,
you want to use my,
the, my SQL engine behind
your commercial tools. You can
do it. Here's the royalty
fees you pay for it.
And you don't have to
worry at all about the
GPL. Now there's other people
out there that are using
the GPL version of my
SQL, but SAP doesn't care
about it. It really comes
down to like your tolerance
for being illegal, right? I
mean, a small mom and
pop company with one guy
who doesn't have anything to
lose, can, you know, violate
a GPL agreement by making
copies or whatever, doing whatever
it is with it, but
a big corporation. Who's going
to distribute that to every
desktop. You know, if that's
not covered in the, in
the free license, they're now
vulnerable legally, I guess that's
really what it comes down
to. Isn't it? Well, partly,
I mean, under the GPL,
you can buy one copy
of a piece of offer
and give it to everybody
in your organization. And that
falls within your license. It's
only the point at which
you sort of then republish
it under your own name,
or put out some piece
of that as your own
product that you trigger this
reciprocity, you know, portion of
the license that says that,
okay, well, you've done a
redistribution now, whatever, whatever it
is, you're redistributing under your
name. You don't have to
get back to everybody to
redistribute it under their names,
right? So, I mean, in
some measure, you, you have
that issue, but if I'm
building a commercial software package
that I'm selling to people,
then it becomes questionable about
whether or not, you know,
I've, I've, maybe I've modified
the source code slightly to
meet my needs to inter-operate
better, et cetera. And I
don't want to make that
available to the community. So
if, like I said, if
I'm SAP, I just go
to my SQL and say,
please give me a commercial
software license where I don't
have to worry about those
things. And the fact that
other people have the source
code to your database, doesn't
matter to me as somebody
who's really just using the
database to power my ERP
app, right? Putting this in
the context of something that
I know like working on
dusk blog, the company that
Clemens vestors, you know, the
father of dusk blogs, new
Teligent released new Teligent dusk
blog, community edition. And that's
the one that we work
on. And that's the DAS
blog that everyone knows. And
I think it's BSD. And,
but they reserve the right
to potentially improve it, add
some features, not release that
source and they can sell
it under a commercial license.
And they, they made us
kind of agree to have
an intelligence in the name
of the, of the product
for the community edition. Jonathan,
can you give us an
example of a licensed software
license that didn't work? Like
somebody chose the wrong model
and it hurt them? I
mean, there's a lot of
ways to interpret that question,
right? I mean, you know,
when a Netscape started failing
in the browser market, they
donated their browser over to
a nonprofit, their source code
of a new nonprofit to
build it out as an
open source product. And that
was called Mozilla. And for,
you know, many, many years,
that project sort of like
collapsed under its own weight
and, and wasn't very effective,
but the very nature of
that kind of open source
licenses that ultimately another team
were able to take that
core technology and develop it
into Firefox, which has become
a really relevant competitor to
explore and Safari in the
marketplace. And so, you know,
it wasn't right for the
Mozilla project in some ways,
but it really worked out
well for Firefox, you know,
so you'll see situations where
there's commercial software that will
be kind of donated into
the open source arena because
it didn't work as a
commercial product. And so it
helps generate Goodwill and a
source code base that allows
others maybe to pick up
the ball or a community,
people that pick up the
ball and, and carry it
from there. I'm thinking about
those companies that had software
that you pay once for
in one week, and then
the next week they're charging
a monthly fee for, and,
you know, which is supposedly
great for them, but why
would your user base want
to go from paying once
to paying monthly or else
it stops working? You know,
that software as a service
model sort of works for
some things and not for
others. Right. And I mean,
I guess I don't know
of a specific example where
something has worked or not
worked, but you, you always
have, again, a continuum of,
of possibilities. I mean, you
know, do you want to
just get automatic updates for
a year, or do you
want to buy a piece
of software that only enables
you to get one update
and then you have to
buy an upgrade? For example,
I mean, it sort of
depends on what your business
model is and the degree
to which the vendor's capable
of being flexible. Then as
a customer, you kind of
decide what sort of, you
know, a purchase model you
want to have for the
maintenance of that software going
forward, right? It's, it's mostly
about new versions rather than
just sort of crippling the
one that you have. And
there's the factor we haven't
talked about, which is competition.
You know, that which affects
pricing, which affects your model,
which affects everything. If you
have a competitor out there
that has a particular license
that you know, is more
lenient to the customer and
less commercial yoga, have a
tough time trying to sell
that software under a commercial
license. You know, that's the
theory, right? But then look
at how many people go
out and buy Evian water,
right? I mean, that's, that's
the commercial software version of
the stuff that comes out
of the tap at your
house. And so the degree
to which you're able to
build something that people feel
they can rely on more,
that's going to be better
supported. That has a better
community of people that kind
of back up that software
that know it, the can
implement it on a consultancy
basis. There's a lot of
factors that go into the
value of your product beyond
just the price and features
of that product. And so
I think it's a mistake
to believe that you can't
compete with open source software
with commercial software, because it
happens all the time. Well,
this sounds like a pretty
good place to stop. And
just as we end here,
what was the name of
the website where people can
go up and get a
list of the different open
source licenses so that our
listeners could potentially educate themselves
and make the right decision
about how they want to
release the software that they
might have in their, in
their group. Right. I mean,
the, the open source initiative
or OSI is the organization
that maintains all these open
source licenses and kind of
blesses them as open source.
But let's, you know, keep
in mind that it could
be that you don't want
to do an open source
license, but that you instead
want to make your source
code available under a commercial
license in a type of
reference oriented license for exam.
And can people get involved
with your organization? Oh, they
sure can. I mean, we're
a trade association and we
work on issues related to
public policy. One place, I
guess I'd like to direct
people right now to get
answers of these kinds of
questions. And just talking about
the business side of their
enterprise is something called the
innovator's network. So if they
go to www dot innovators,
hyphen network.org, you'll see a
lot of resources and white
papers and webinars on the
business side of your business.
And I think a lot
of entrepreneurs have, you know,
all they need in terms
of keeping up with the
technology side of the business.
And this site is about
how to form partnerships, how
do identify and protect your
intellectual property, how to do
due diligence on your business,
et cetera. So innovator's network,
I think, is worth checking
out. Great. We'll be sure
to include a link to
the innovators network on both
the Hanselman at site and
on the, on my blog.
Thanks a lot for taking
so much time out of
your day to talk to
Carl and I, Jonathan, I
really appreciate it. And we'll
see you next week on
Hanselman.